---
name: v1.1.1
date: 2024-12-02
download: https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/v1.1.1/UPR_FVX_v1.1.1.zip
---
A new minor release arrives, UPR FVX v1.1.1! Thanks to Pokeli for the Red backsprite, and the several individuals who pointed out mega's abilities were not getting randomized.

# How to use

Download the Randomizer below by clicking on `UPR_FVX-v1.1.1.zip`. After downloading, extract the contents of the zip file to a folder on your computer. You can then run the Randomizer by double clicking the appropriate launcher script:

- Windows: Use `launcher_WINDOWS.bat`
- Mac: Use `launcher_MAC.command`
- Other Unix-based systems: Use `launcher_UNIX.sh`


# Changelog
## New and Changed Features
### Evolutions
- (Gen 7) Rockruff and Cosmoem no longer have their evolutions changed always, instead these changes are tied to "Change Impossible Evolutions"/"Make Evolutions Easier"/"Remove Time-based Evolutions" like with other Pokémon. [More info here](https://upr-fvx.github.io/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/wikipages/evolutions.html).

### Graphics
- (Gen 2) Custom Player Graphics of Red, by Pokeli. 

## Bugfixes

- Fixed crash when attempting to assign weakness-reducing berry for the Normal type, as a consequence of changed type effectiveness creating a weakness to the Normal type.
- Fixed alternate formes being ignored by parts of the Randomizer. When base stats/types/abilities/TM compability are randomized, alt formes will have those attributes randomized as well. Since Mega Evolutions count as alt formes,  this is what caused them to not get random abilities.