---
name: v1.4.2
date: 2026-01-28
download: https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.4.2/UPR_FVX_v1.4.2.zip
---
Hello again! Here comes a mostly bug-fix release, but also improved support for pokecrystal-speedchoice, and oh right, dark mode. (And more.)

Thanks to 
@bergmaen for your code contributions,
@LunaisLazier, @Gabbyxo97, and @Pokepal7 for reporting Issues,
and FourLeafSunny from Spriters' Resource for the CPG sprites!

# How to use

Download the Randomizer below by clicking on `UPR_FVX-v1.4.2.zip`. After downloading, extract the contents of the 
zip file to a folder on your computer. You can then run the Randomizer by double-clicking the appropriate launcher script:

- Windows: Use `launcher_WINDOWS.bat`
- Mac: Use `launcher_MAC.command`
- Other Unix-based systems: Use `launcher_UNIX.sh`

# Changelog
## New and Changed Features

### Trainer Pokemon
- Split the "Better Movesets" option into three options, for boss trainers, important trainers, and regular trainers. In Gen 2, only boss trainers and important trainers may be given better movesets, due to memory constraints. (#157)
- (Gen 1) Disabled "Better Movesets", since the feature did not function at all in this Gen. 
- "Better Movesets" now excludes the first rival/friend battle, and other "not strong" trainers. This is consistent with those trainers not being given other boosts, like held items and added Pokemon.

### Wild Pokemon
- (GUI) Renamed "Keep Area/Zone Theme" to more consistent "Keep Set/Zone Theme".

### Graphics
- (Gen 3) New FRLG Custom Player Graphics: Ethan (from Pokémon) by FourLeafSunny.

### Misc. Tweaks
- (Gen 2) Added support for "Reusable TMs" and "Forgettable HMs" to pokecrystal-speedchoice v8.

### Misc.
- (Gen 2) Restored check value writing for pokecrystal-speedchoice.
- (GUI) Added theme selection. This includes dark mode (!) and also the ability to change between Windows/Metal/FlatLaf themes. The Windows theme is still only available on Windows computers. (#151)

## Bugfixes
- (Red/Blue) Fixed rivals original starters not being randomized if starter
  Pokemon are randomized, trainer Pokemon are unchanged, additional Pokemon are
  added to important trainers, and rival is supposed to keep starter throughout
  the game. (#145)
- (Yellow) Fixed Settings from other games not being loadable in yellow. (#145)
- (GUI) Fixed Settings String for the selected percentage for trainer Pokemon
 evolution levels not being loaded correctly. (#144)
- (Gen 2) Fixed random starter held items randomization failure. (#155)
- (GUI) Fixed "No-Game-Breaking Moves" not being saved properly to settings files. (#153)
- (Gen 2) Fixed randomization failure when Farfetch'd was set as one of the Game Corner prizes.
- (Log) Fixed visual misalignment of the top row in logged Type Tables.
