---
name: v1.5.2
date: 2026-06-05
download: https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.5.2/UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-Windows.zip, https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.5.2/UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-Linux_x86.zip, https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.5.2/UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-Linux_ARM.zip, https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.5.2/UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-Mac_x86.zip, https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.5.2/UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-Mac_ARM.zip
download_short_names: Windows, Linux_x86, Linux_ARM, Mac_x86, Mac_ARM
---

Hi! Here comes a minor Randomizer update, mostly focused on forms.

Thanks to @Gobl943, @marshjoran and @SchinkTasia for reporting Issues, 
and bepis from Spriter's Resource for the CPG sprites!

# How to use

Download the Randomizer below by clicking on `UPR_FVX-v1_5_2-[OS].zip`. If you are on Linux or Mac, and don't know if your computer uses x86 or ARM, there are guides on the internet. After downloading, extract the contents of the zip file to a folder on your computer. You can then run the Randomizer by double-clicking the launcher script:

- Windows: Use `launcher.bat`
- Linux: Use `launcher.sh`
- Mac: Use `launcher.command`

# Changelog
## New and Changed Features

### Static Pokemon
- If a Static Pokémon slot allows for alt formes, and a Pokémon with cosmetic formes (e.g. Burmy, Flabébé, Unown) is put in that slot, that Pokémon will have a random cosmetic forme instead of always having the forme that corresponds with id=0.

### In-Game Trades
- (Gen 7) If a Pokémon with cosmetic forms (e.g. Burmy, Flabébé, Unown) is randomly chosen as the given Pokémon of a trade, that Pokémon will have a random cosmetic form instead of always having the form that corresponds with id=0. 

### Items
- (Gen 5-7) Made Pretty Wing count as a bad item. (Issue #198)

### Graphics
- (Gen 2) New Custom Player Graphics: Curly Brace (from Cave Story) by bepis.

### Misc.
- (Log) Made the "Pokemon Base Statistics / Types / Abilities" list include alt forms immediately after their base forms, instead of at the very end.
- (Log+GUI) Gave form suffixes to the base forms of Pokemon with non-obvious base forms. **E.g.** "Wormadam" -> "Wormadam-Plant". This applies to: Wormadam, Basculin, Pumpkaboo, Gourgeist, Oricorio, and Lycanroc. 
- Made the "Custom Names" feature work like the existing `/data` folder customization features. Custom names for Trainers, Trainer classes, and Pokemon nicknames now reside in `/data/trainer_and_mon_names`. The GUI editor can still be used. Old RNCN files can still be read, but new ones will not be created. Preset files will no longer include custom names. 
- The above change allows the CLI to use Custom Names, taking them from the `/data/trainer_and_mon_names` folder. (Issue #185)

## Bugfixes
- (Gen 7) Fixed non-Ultra Beasts static encounters occasionally being randomized into Ultra Beasts when "Swap Legendaries & Swap Standards" is used.
- (Gen 6+7) Fixed wild Pumpkaboo forms being randomized into different mons, when using 1-to-1 randomization options.
- (Log) Fixed alt formes being logged as their base formes. (#205)
