---
name: v1.6.1
date: 2014-05-16
download: https://web.archive.org/web/20231226230806/https://pokehacks.dabomstew.com/randomizer/downloads/oldversions/UPRandomizer-161.zip
---
- Support for Generation 4 non-English games has been restored to pre-1.5.0 levels.
- You can now load "Settings" files from older versions.
  - This refers to the "Load Settings"/"Save Settings" files that just set/unset options, not premade seeds.
  - Any options that didn't exist when you made the settings file will be set to "Unchanged" or equivalent.
  - When you do load an old settings file, you will be warned to check for new options.
  - The 5 bundled settings files will still be updated each release to avoid giving you this warning.
- Trying to load a seed/preset file from an older version will now tell you which version you can use to open it.
- The "4 starting moves" option to give every Pokemon 4 moves at Level 1 is now available for most games instead of just Generation 1.
  - It is still unavailable for most Generation 2 games due to technical reasons (not enough space in the ROM bank where movesets are stored)
- It's now easier to copy the seed & config string when you finish randomizing a ROM, though saving the seed file is still easier overall.
- When you open a ZIP file, RAR file or IPS patch file in the randomizer (instead of a randomizable ROM file) it will now let you know instead of just giving a generic error.
- Fixed a bug where randomizing static Pokemon using the "Legendary <-> Legendary and Normal <-> Normal" option could cause a lockup/infinite loop.
  - This happened if you limited the Pokemon available so that there weren't enough legendaries available to replace the legendaries in the original game.
