---
name: v1.7.0
date: 2016-02-23
---
- Started providing a Windows EXE release of the randomizer, which wraps the Java JAR file inside a launch4j wrapper.
  - You still need Java installed on your system to run the randomizer, but launch4j should take care of launching Java for you and prompting you to install it if you don't have it.
  - Linux/Mac users can just keep using the JAR releases as normal. Windows users who are already able to run the JAR files can keep using them too.
- Added randomization of move attributes.
  - You can now randomize move powers, accuracies, max PP, and types. 
  - The Physical/Special category of moves can also be randomized in games that have support for it.
  - Using most of these options will probably create a very silly gameplay experience, so be warned. Random types are about the tamest of the lot.
- Added randomization of the Pokemon that Pokemon evolve into.
  - Pokemon that don't evolve will still not evolve. Pokemon that evolve into multiple different things will still do so.
  - You can take your pick of various options to tweak the randomization and possibly make it more "realistic" to the original games.
  - Credit to pk3DS (the Gen6 editor/randomizer) for doing this first, and to a _lot_ of people for suggesting that I do it in various ways.
- Overhauled the GUI, changed from scrolling area system to tabs and moved around many options.
  - Similar/related options have been grouped together in a single tab for the most part.
  - A few former General options have been placed next to related functionality. For example, you can find the Evolutions tweaks next to the Evolution randomizer.
  - Misc Tweaks tab (see below) contains most of the rest of the options that used to be under General/Other Options.
  - About Dialog removed and replaced with a version indicator and website URL on the main GUI.
  - Empty space has been filled with a Pokemon sprite from the currently loaded game, this code may be used for other purposes in the future.
- Overhauled Code Tweaks system, renamed to Misc Tweaks.
  - This is to represent the fact that a lot of these tweaks don't actually change code, and make them more visible/accessible for users.
  - As stated above, this tab now contains quite a few miscellaneous options such as the Lower Case Pokemon Names tweak.
- A few entirely new misc tweaks have been added:
  - Randomize PC Potion - randomizes the PC potion for Gen 1 games. May do the same for later gens in a future release.
  - Allow Pikachu Evolution - lets you use a ThunderStone on Pikachu in Yellow version to evolve it.
  - Randomize Catching Tutorial - randomizes the Pokemon that appear in the game's catching tutorial. Available for Gens 1-4.
- Added Instant Text tweaks for Gens 3-5 (excluding Ruby/Sapphire and Diamond/Pearl) to pretty much complete support.
  - Emerald/FRLG Instant Text is a bit strange in its behavior, so it is only used when you set text speed to Fast, just in case there is a situation which softlocks with Instant Text active.
  - Gen4/5 Instant Text are ports of premade Action Replay codes into ROM edits. Credit goes to Kaphotics for the original Platinum/HGSS codes. I do not know who made the original Gen 5 codes.
- Added very rudimentary ROM hack detection for Fire Red v1.0.
  - This should increase the number of ROM hacks that can be randomized substantially, but some things will still break.
  - ROM hacks are still not _officially 100% supported_ so a specific thing breaking for a specific ROM hack is not going to be treated as a huge deal.
  - I will look more into Ruby/Emerald as well as Gen4-5 hacks in the future.
- Overhauled evolution handling code.
  - The option to select a random starter with 2 evolutions will now include Pokemon with no prevolutions and at least 2 stages of evolution.
  - Carrying randomized stats and types up evolutions when the appropriate options are selected now works as advertised. 
  - Types and stats will not be carried up split evolutions such as the Eeveelutions to avoid situations where all 7 Eeveelutions have the same typing/base stats.
  - When the rival is given a starter with split evolutions and the "Rival Carries Starter" option is used, they will now pick a random evolution instead of always using the first one.
- Improved error reporting in general.
  - The randomizer will probably throw more errors than previous versions, but this should only be in situations where old randomizers would "silently fail" (appear to do something but actually fail at some point and not actually do it). These errors and their log files can be submitted to the randomizer website/Issues page to improve the chance of bugs getting fixed.
  - Log filenames now contain the datetime when the error occurred instead of a unix timestamp, which was meaningless/confusing to a lot of people.
  - Errors caused by the randomizer detecting an unsolvable situation/infinite loop should report a message to the user and prompt them to try less strict settings.
- Finally fixed Diamond/Pearl/Platinum encounters to actually be completely random when intended.
  - "Conditional" encounters such as the Day/Night unique encounters will now be randomized, so non-randomized encounters should no longer appear.
- Improved Gen4/5 randomization log files to include map names for each wild encounter set.
  - This can still lead to ambiguity where one map name has many separate encounter areas, such as Victory Road, but it is a big improvement over having no labels at all.
- Randomized Red/Blue roms will now save as gbc files instead of sgb files.
- Allowed randomization of Gen 1's ghost Marowak in the Pokemon Tower when Static Pokemon are randomized.
  - Similarly to the PC potion randomization, will probably be added for FR/LG as well in the near future.
  - Also made sure the ghost Marowak (or its replacement) does not show up as a regular randomized wild Pokemon in Pokemon Tower.
- Fixed a bug where additional methods for the same evolution would be discarded.
  - Fixes a regression in one of the 1.6 releases where Feebas's evolution was no longer fixed by "Remove Impossible Evolutions".
- Fixed the text that Blaine says after giving you TM38 in FR/LG if you randomize TMs.
- Fixed a bug where randomized move tutor compatibility wasn't being applied properly for Pokemon Platinum.
- Fixed a bug where expansion of Gen 3 movesets was broken and had the potential to overwrite movesets for other Pokemon.
- Fixed a bug where selecting "Lower Case Pokemon Names" for Gen 4 games didn't actually apply the setting.
