# Changes

## General
- Changes to "bad items"
Gen 5 only. For settings that ban bad items, the definition of a "bad item" has been changed slightly - berries with in-battle effects are no longer considered bad, but Soul Dew and Quick Powder are now considered bad (since they only can be used by very few Pokemon).

- Logs
The formatting in generated randomization logs has been changed to be more clear, in particular for Pokemon move pool randomization and wild Pokemon randomization.

## Starters, Statics & Trades

### Static Pokemon

- **NEW:** Random (Similar Strength)
Randomizes static Pokemon into Pokemon with similar base stat totals to the original Pokemon.

- **NEW:** Limit Musketeers
Gen 5 only. Sets the base stat total of the three musketeers (Cobalion, Virizion, Terrakion) as an upper limit for what they are randomized to.

- **NEW:** Randomize 600+ BST
Forces pure randomization for Pokemon with base stat totals over 600. Recommended in conjunction with Random (Similar Strength) if you don't want legendary Pokemon to always be randomized into legendary/pseudo legendary Pokemon.

## Trainer Pokemon

### Trainers Pokemon

- **NEW:** Random (Even distribution)
Gen 5 only. Attempts to distribute Pokemon more evenly among trainers, to avoid single Pokemon appearing very many times (which has a tendency to happen when using the "Try to use Pokemon with similar strength" setting).

- **NEW:** Random (Even distribution, main-game)
Gen 5 only. Same as Random (Even distribution), but only applies to main-game trainers.

## Wild Pokemon

### Wild Pokemon

- **NEW:** Balance shaking grass Pokemon?
Gen 5 only. Sets an upper limit for the base stat total of shaking grass Pokemon based on their level, to avoid having fully evolved Pokemon appear too early when using the "Similar Strength" setting. Around level 20, the limit will have reached Audino's base stat total.

## Items

### **NEW:** Non-Main Shop Items
Gen 5 only. These settings apply to "non-main" shops, meaning standard shops except for the main shop that appears in Poke Centers. This includes **all non-main shops with regular shop interfaces,** unless they sell TMs. Vending machines and the milk vendor are not included, since they use other interfaces.

- Unchanged
Nothing changes.

- Shuffle
Shop contents are shuffled among the game's shops.

- Randomize
Shop contents are randomized. Without any additional settings, the same items that are legal for field items/held items are legal. When using this setting, no item will appear in more than one shop.

- Ban bad items?
Removes "bad items" from the randomization pool, with the same rules as for field items.

- Ban regular shop items?
Removes items that appear in main shops from the randomization pool.

- Ban overpowered shop items?
Removes "overpowered" shop items from the randomization pool. This includes items that sell for high prices to maniacs, Rare Candy, and Lucky Egg.

- Balance shop item prices?
Balances prices for items. Without this setting, some items that normally don't appear in shops will have very strange (usually far too low) prices. **This setting will also change sell prices for items, which always are half of the buy prices.**

## Misc Tweaks

- **NEW:** Ban Big Money Maniac Items
Gen 5 only.  Bans items that sell for more than $10,000 to item maniacs from appearing as any kind of randomized item. For reference: https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Item_maniac