---
name: v3.0.0
date: 2020-04-30
download: https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-pokemon-randomizer-zx/releases/download/v3.0.0/PokeRandoZX-v3_0_0.jar
---
# Changes

---
## Pokemon Traits

### Pokemon Base Statistics

- Standardize EXP Curves

This setting has more implications than it may seem; Pokemon with different EXP curves cannot evolve into each other. Previously, this setting caused all legendary Pokemon to have the "Slow" EXP curve and all other Pokemon to have the "Medium Fast" EXP Curve. This made it impossible to evolve into any legendary Pokemon when using this setting, including those with 600 or lower BST (despite them being equal to/worse than pseudo legendaries). As such, this setting now has three choices:

`  - Legendaries: Slow`

Sets all legendary Pokemon to have the "Slow" EXP Curve and all other Pokemon to have the "Medium Fast" EXP Curve.

`  - Strong Legendaries: Slow`

Sets all strong legendary Pokemon (>600 BST) to have the "Slow" EXP Curve and all other Pokemon to have the "Medium Fast" EXP Curve.

`  - All Medium Fast`

Sets all Pokemon to have the "Medium Fast" EXP Curve.

### Pokemon Abilities

- Ban negative abilities?

Imposter is no longer considered negative. Multitype, Klutz and Stall are now considered negative.

- **NEW:** Ban bad abilities?

Removes "bad" abilities from the ability randomization pool. This includes Minus, Plus, Anticipation, Forewarn, Frisk, Honey Gather, Friend Guard, Healer, and Telepathy.

### Pokemon Evolutions

- Gen 5 Feebas Split Evolution

In Gen 5, Feebas could evolve via Prism Scale or via being transferred from an earlier generation with a high Beauty stat and then levelled up. The latter method has been removed, allowing Feebas to keep its base stat distribution and ability when evolving.

- Make Evolutions Easier

Now sets Mantyke, Shelmet and Karrablast to evolve at level 35 instead of requiring another Pokemon in the party.

---
## Wild Pokemon

### Wild Pokemon

- **NEW:** Percentage Level Modifier

Allows for modifying Wild Pokemon levels by a percentage, similarly to the setting for Trainer Pokemon.

---
## Items

- Changes to item pool

RageCandyBar is now in the item pool for Gen 5. It can be used to awaken the static Darmanitans at Relic Castle in Black/White. When using balanced shop prices, it has a price of 15,000.