---
name: v4.0.0
date: 2020-09-25
---
# Changes

---
## General

- New Distribution Format

The randomizer is now distributed as a zip file instead of just a jar file. **Make sure to read the included README (it is not very long).**

- GitHub Wiki

There is now a [GitHub Wiki](https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-pokemon-randomizer-zx/wiki) with some [important information](https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-pokemon-randomizer-zx/wiki/Important-Information) and some extracurricular information.

- Generation 6/7 Support

The randomizer now supports Generation 6/7 games, specifically:

```
X/Y
Omega Ruby/Alpha Sapphire
Sun/Moon
Ultra Sun/Ultra Moon
```

Because 3DS game randomization is a little more complicated than the earlier consoles, there is a [Wiki page with some helpful information about 3DS games.](https://github.com/Ajarmar/universal-pokemon-randomizer-zx/wiki/Randomizing-the-3DS-games)

- Game Update Support

For Gen 6-7 games, Game Updates can be applied by clicking Settings -> Load Game Update.

- Loading Settings Strings

The option to load settings from a string instead of a file has been added. Getting your current settings as a string and loading settings from a string can be done by going to Settings -> Get/Load Settings String.

- Changes to Premade Seeds

Generating a premade seed using a seed + a config string can now be done without having the same set of custom names as the original creator of the seed. This will result in the same randomization, but with different custom names (if the custom names setting is used). To generate a premade seed that uses the same custom names, have the original creator generate a preset file (.rndp) instead.

---
## Pokemon Traits

### Pokemon Base Statistics

- Setting: Update Base Stats

Now called "Update Base Stats to Generation". Allows for choosing which generation to update base stats to. Choosing a later generation will include the updates from previous generations as well.

- **NEW:** Follow Mega Evolutions

Mega Evolutions inherit their stat distributions from their base formes. Similarly to regular Evolutions, split Mega Evolutions will not inherit stat distributions.

### Pokemon Types

- **NEW:** Follow Mega Evolutions

Mega Evolutions inherit their typing from their base formes. Similarly to regular Evolutions, split Mega Evolutions will not inherit typings.

### Pokemon Abilities

- **NEW:** Combine Duplicate Abilities

When randomizing abilities, considers abilities with the exact same effect to be the same ability for probability purposes. Every variation of these abilities can still appear.

- **NEW:** Follow Mega Evolutions

Mega Evolutions inherit their randomized abilities from their base formes. Similarly to regular Evolutions, split Mega Evolutions will not inherit abilities.

### Pokemon Evolutions

- Setting: Make Evolutions Easier

This setting will now always lower the evolution level of intermediate evolutions to 30. (Previously, it was only lowered if the next evolution also was level based.)

- Nincada's Evolutions

Randomizing Evolutions will now properly randomize Nincada's "Shedinja Evolution" in all generations. Additionally, the "Ninjask Evolution" will now inherit its traits from Nincada if "Follow Evolutions" settings are used.

- **NEW:** Allow Alternate Formes

Gen 7 only. Allows alternate formes of Pokemon to appear as Evolutions.

### Other

- Alternate Formes

In Black 2/White 2, Pokemon traits (base stats, typing, ability, EXP curves, etc) are now set correctly for alternate formes.

- Keldeo (Resolute Forme)

In generation 5, Keldeo-R is now treated as a cosmetic form and will have the same base stat spread/typing/ability/moves as regular Keldeo.

---
## Starters, Statics & Trades

### Starter Pokemon

- **NEW:** Allow Alternate Formes

Gen 6/7 only. Allows Alternate Formes of Pokemon to appear as Starter Pokemon.

### Static Pokemon

- More Static Pokemon Supported

HG/SS: The [Tentacool that can be received in the Cianwood Pokemon Center if the player only has a single Pokemon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H73ESn6VYvI) is now randomized.

- **NEW:** Allow Alternate Formes

Gen 6/7 only. Allows Alternate Formes of Pokemon to appear as Static Pokemon.

- **NEW:** Swap Mega Evolvables

Gen 6 only. Ensures that the Mega Evolution tutorial Pokemon (Lucario in X/Y and Latios/Latias in OR/AS) are swapped with other Pokemon capable of Mega Evolution.

### In-Game Trades

When randomizing trades in Gen 4/5, the text boxes describing what Pokemon the person wants/gives are now changed correctly.

---
## Moves & Movesets

### Move Data

- Setting: Update Moves

Changed to "Update Moves to Generation", allowing the user to choose which generation moves should be updated to. Choosing a later generation includes all move updates that previous generations introduced as well.

### Pokemon Movesets

- Setting: Metronome Only Mode

Now works again.

- Setting: Force % of Good Damaging Moves

For multi-hit moves, now takes into account the average hit count of the move when determining if it should count as a "Good Damaging Move".

- **NEW:** Evolution Moves for All Pokemon

Gen 7 only. Gives every Pokemon a move that they learn upon evolution.

---
## Foe Pokemon

### Trainer Pokemon

- **NEW:** Double Battle Mode

Gen 4-7 only. Changes Important/Boss Trainers to double battles in gen 4/5, and changes all Trainer battles to double battles in gen 6/7. This setting has a few notable issues; make sure to read the tooltip for the setting in the program.

- **NEW:** Additional Pokemon

Gen 4-7 only. Allows for adding additional Pokemon to Trainers. Separate settings for Boss/Important/Regular Trainers.

- **NEW:** Swap Mega Evolvables

Gen 6/7 only. Ensures that Trainer Pokemon that originally were able to Mega Evolve (for example: Korrina's Lucario, Diantha's Gardevoir, Steven's Metagross) are swapped with other Pokemon that can Mega Evolve.

- **NEW:** Random Shiny Trainer Pokemon

Gen 7 only. Randomly sets Trainer Pokemon to be shiny with a probability of 1/256.

### **NEW:** Totem Pokemon

These settings apply to Totem Pokemon in Generation 7 games, as well as other uncatchable Static Pokemon (in particular, the Aether Paradise Nihilego, Dusk Mane/Dawn Wings Necrozma, and Ultra Necrozma).

- Unchanged

Doesn't change Totem Pokemon.

- Random

Randomizes Totem Pokemon species (completely random).

- Random (similar strength)

Randomizes Totem Pokemon species (replacements will have a BST close to the original Totem Pokemon).

- Ally Pokemon
    - Unchanged
    
    Doesn't change Ally Pokemon.

    - Random

    Randomizes Ally Pokemon species (completely random).

    - Random (similar strength)

    Randomizes Ally Pokemon species (replacements will have a BST close to the original Ally Pokemon).

- Auras

    These settings affect Totem Pokemon's auras. The pool of possible auras is limited to +1/+2/+3 to a single stat, or to every stat.
    - Unchanged

    Doesn't change Totem Pokemon's auras.

    - Random

    Randomizes Totem Pokemon's auras from the pool of possible auras.

    - Random (same strength)

    Randomizes Totem Pokemon's auras from the pool of possible auras while maintaining the original amount of stages.

- Randomize Held Items

Randomizes Totem Pokemon's held items from a limited pool of consumable items.

- Allow Alternate Formes

Allows Alternate Formes to appear as Totem/Ally Pokemon.

- Percentage Level Modifier

Allows for increasing/decreasing Totem/Ally Pokemon levels by a percentage.

---
## Wild Pokemon

### Wild Pokemon

- **NEW:** Allow Alternate Formes

Gen 5-7 only. Allows Alternate Formes of Pokemon to appear as Wild Pokemon.

---
## TM/HMs & Tutors

### Move Tutors

- Added Support

The HG/SS Headbutt Tutor is now randomized when randomizing move tutors/move tutor compatibility.

---
## Items

### Special Shops

Renamed from "Non-Main Shop Items" to "Special Shops".

- Added Support

Special Shop randomization is now available in Generation 4 games.

- Setting: Ban Regular Shop Items

No longer removes Max Revives from the pool of possible items.

- Setting: Balance Shop Prices

The following balancing changes have been made in generation 5 games:

```
Safari Ball: 0 (lol) -> 500
Old Amber: 5000 -> 8000
All TMs over 20000: Set to 20000
```

- Setting: Guarantee Evolution Items

Now includes Prism Scale in Generation 5+.

### Other

- Bad Items

Pass Orb is now considered a bad item in Gen 5+.

---
## Misc Tweaks

- **NEW:** All Wild Pokemon Can Call Allies

Gen 7 only. Allows all Wild Pokemon to call allies, with a relatively low probability. Without this setting, only Pokemon that could call allies in the original game will be able to call allies.

- **NEW:** Balance Static Pokemon Levels

Gen 5 only. Sets fossil levels in BW to 20 instead of 25. More level balancing may be added in the future.

- **NEW:** Don't Revert Temporary Alt Formes

Gen 6/7 only. Some alternate formes of Pokemon will revert to their base forme when the game is reset (or, in Gen 7 only, at the end of battles); this setting prevents this from happening.