---
name: v1.3.2
date: 2025-10-18
download: https://github.com/upr-fvx/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/releases/download/vFVX1.3.2/UPR_FVX_v1.3.2.zip
---
Hello everyone! This Randomizer release focuses on GUI goodies, and better usage of the Custom Player Graphics, which can be chosen when you randomize a Gen 1-3 game. 

Thanks to
@DetectiveAlice for reporting Issues,
SharkGuy, bepis, MollyChan, and FourLeafSunny from Spriter's Resource for the CPG sprites, and
MollyChan for help with CPG sheet design!

# How to use

Download the Randomizer below by clicking on `UPR_FVX-v1_3_2.zip`. After downloading, extract the contents of the
zip file to a folder on your computer. You can then run the Randomizer by double-clicking the appropriate launcher script:

- Windows: Use `launcher_WINDOWS.bat`
- Mac: Use `launcher_MAC.command`
- Other Unix-based systems: Use `launcher_UNIX.sh`

# Changelog
## New and Changed Features

### Graphics
- (Gen 1) New Custom Player Graphics: Boyfriend by SharkGuy, Shantae by bepis
- (Gen 2) New Custom Player Graphics: Gadabout by MollyChan, Freddy Fazbear by FourLeafSunny
- Custom Player Graphics can now be made using a single sheet, instead of multiple separate images. [Read more on the wiki](https://upr-fvx.github.io/universal-pokemon-randomizer-fvx/wikipages/cpgs.html). The Gen 1+2 sheet designs are based on sheets by MollyChan. 

### Misc.
- (GUI) The Randomizer now remembers the most recent folder for opening/saving ROMs, between sessions. 
- (Gen 1-3) When loading a premade seed, it is now possible to choose a Custom Player Graphics to apply. Play with your friends under equal randomization, but with different looks! (#100)

## Bugfixes
- (Gen 3) Fixed one of the May battles in Emerald not getting requested buffs.
- (GUI) Fixed the release page link wrapping after every word and taking up lots of vertical space, on non-Windows OSes.
- (GUI) Fixed randomization option graphical oddities/crampedness, by adding scroll bars as needed.