---
name: v1.3.4
date: 2025-11-30
---
Hello everybody! This version finds more uses for the estimated evo levels introduced in v1.3.3, 
adds Type Effectiveness randomization to Gen 7, and more!

Thanks to 
@bergmaen for your code contributions,
@slingshotocelot and @callomello for reporting Issues,
Nachopeñalva from DeviantArt and Ploxel from Spriter's Resource for the CPG sprites, and
AZBZ from the 3DS Pokémon Modding Discord server for help with Gen 7 Type Effectiveness randomization!

# How to use

Download the Randomizer below by clicking on `UPR_FVX-v1.3.4.zip`. After downloading, extract the contents of the 
zip file to a folder on your computer. You can then run the Randomizer by double-clicking the appropriate launcher script:

- Windows: Use `launcher_WINDOWS.bat`
- Mac: Use `launcher_MAC.command`
- Other Unix-based systems: Use `launcher_UNIX.sh`

# Changelog
## New and Changed Features

### Pokemon Evolutions
- The option "Use Estimated Evolution Levels" is now also usable for "Random"
  evolutions. (#111)
- The option "Use Estimated Evolution Levels" is now also usable if "Make
  Evolutions Easier" is selected. (#114)

### Trainer Pokemon
- Add option "Trainer Evolve their Pokemon" that can be selected if "Random
  Every Level" for Pokemon Evolutions is not selected.
  If selected, any trainer Pokemon will be evolved as far as possible at its
  level. For any trainer Pokemon that does not evolve by level up, its
  estimated evolution level is used. 
  This replaces "Force Middle Stage at Level:".
  (#107)

### Types
- (Gen 7) Added support for Type Effectiveness randomization.

### Graphics
- (Gen 3) New RSE Custom Player Graphics: Cynthia (from Pokémon) by NachoPeñalva.
- (Gen 1) New Custom Player Graphics: Kind Dedede, Meta Knight (both from Kirby), by Ploxel.

### Misc.
- Add option "No Random Intro Mon". If you want the Pokemon that the professor sends out in the intro (or Ethan's/Lyra's Marill in HGSS) to NOT be randomized, check this box. (#121)

## Bugfixes
- (Gen 4-7) Fixed additional trainer Pokemon of unrandomized trainers always
  being duplicates of original trainer Pokemon. (#116)
